**NOTE:** This project was done as part of a coursework and the repo is ported
from svn. This is for backup purposes only. The code is not maintained. Please
reach out to the author if you have any questions regarding this work.

# Swarm Food Collection

(Automatically exported from code.google.com/p/ros-simulations)

Foraging is the process of collecting food from the environment. Several food sources may be available in the environment with different properties like food nutrition, distance from the  nest,  predator risk, etc. A forager must collect food from the source at any point in time. Forager may not always select a food source with the highest food quality as the associated risk due to predators may be high. On the other hand, the food source with poor quality may not be sufficient for community growth. Thus, foragers need to perform trade-offs between predation risk and food intake  depending on the food source properties and forager requirements. This behavior is common in several species like ants, squirrels, etc. In this paper, we apply the trade-off mechanisms observed in nature to multi-robot systems. Multiple robots can be used in several information/object foraging applications. The robots can autonomously make decisions using the trade-off information to select a foraging patch that satisfies the desired information/object collection goal and maximizes their safety. We propose a cost-reward model for robots that takes foraging history of the agent and the current food quantity at the nest to compute the modalities of a trade-off. The model is validated through simulations on ROS.Foraging is the process of collecting food from the environment. Several food sources may be available in the environment with different properties like food nutrition, distance from the  nest,  predator risk, etc. A forager must collect food from the source at any point in time. Forager may not always select a food source with the highest food quality as the associated risk due to predators may be high. On the other hand, the food source with poor quality may not be sufficient for community growth. Thus, foragers need to perform trade-offs between predation risk and food intake  depending on the food source properties and forager requirements. This behavior is common in several species like ants, squirrels, etc. In this paper, we apply the trade-off mechanisms observed in nature to multi-robot systems. Multiple robots can be used in several information/object foraging applications. The robots can autonomously make decisions using the trade-off information to select a foraging patch that satisfies the desired information/object collection goal and maximizes their safety. We propose a cost-reward model for robots that takes foraging history of the agent and the current food quantity at the nest to compute the modalities of a trade-off. The model is validated through simulations on ROS.
